The Project Gutenberg eBook of Lee Mansion National Memorial, Arlington,
Virginia (1953), by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Lee Mansion National Memorial, Arlington, Virginia (1953)

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: July 21, 2021 [eBook #65892]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LEE MANSION NATIONAL MEMORIAL,
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA (1953) ***




                              Lee Mansion
                           NATIONAL MEMORIAL
                     _Arlington National Cemetery_


                                VIRGINIA

    [Illustration: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE • DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR]

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
                             March 3, 1849

                UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
                       Douglas McKay, _Secretary_

                         NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
                      Conrad L. Wirth, _Director_

          Reprint 1953    16—52238-7    U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE




                    _Lee Mansion National Memorial_


  In this Mansion, which became his home when he married Mary Custis,
  Robert E. Lee wrote his resignation from the United States Army in
  April 1861, to join the cause of Virginia and the South.

The Lee Mansion National Memorial, or Arlington House, as it was
formerly known, distinctive through its associations with the families
of Custis, Washington, and Lee, stands within the Nation’s most famous
cemetery on the Virginia side of the Potomac opposite Washington. This
house of the foster son of the First President was for years the
treasury of both the Washington heirlooms and the Washington tradition.
Here Robert E. Lee, a young lieutenant in the U. S. Army, and Mary
Custis, the great-granddaughter of Martha Washington, were married and
reared a family. Here, also, Col. Robert E. Lee, torn between devotion
to his country and to his native State, made his fateful decision, the
substance of which he had written to his son a few months before: “It is
the principle I contend for.... But I can anticipate no greater calamity
for the country than a dissolution of the Union.... Still, a Union that
can only be maintained by swords and bayonets ... has no charm for me. I
shall mourn for my country and for the welfare and progress of mankind.
If the Union is dissolved ... I shall return to my native State ... and
save in defence will draw my sword on none.” Today Arlington House,
furnished with appointments of its early period, preserves for posterity
the atmosphere of gracious living, typical of a romantic age of American
history.




                            _Early History_


George Washington Parke Custis, builder of Arlington House, was the
grandson of Martha Washington and the foster son of George Washington.
When Martha Dandridge Custis became the wife of Col. George Washington
she was a widow with two children, Martha Parke Custis and John Parke
Custis. Martha Parke Custis died in her teens without having been
married, but John Parke Custis married Eleanor Calvert of Maryland in
1774, and upon his death at the close of the Revolutionary War left four
children. The death of John Parke Custis was a shock, not only to his
mother, Mrs. Washington, but to General Washington as well, as he is
reported to have remarked to the grieving mother at the deathbed, “I
adopt the two youngest children as my own.” Their names were Eleanor
Parke Custis (Nellie) and George Washington Parke Custis. They were
reared at Mount Vernon and are often referred to as the “Children of
Mount Vernon.”

In 1802, the year his grandmother, Mrs. Washington, died, George
Washington Parke Custis began building Arlington House on the estate of
1,100 acres which his father had purchased from the Alexander family in
1778. He named the estate “Arlington” and the home “Arlington House” in
honor of the ancestral homestead of the Custis family on the Eastern
Shore of Virginia. The house was to receive the legacy of his
grandmother—furniture and pictures, plate and china from Mount Vernon,
and more precious still, personal effects of Washington. Two years
later, at the age of 23, he was married to Mary Lee Fitzhugh of Chatham.

    [Illustration: Portrait of Robert E. Lee, about 1850
    (G. Louvrie)]

It is believed that Mr. Custis designed and supervised the original
building and that its remodeling about 1820 was under the direction of
the architect, George Hadfield. The foundation stone and timber came
from the estate. The bricks with which the house was built were burned
from native clay by slaves.




                              _Arlington_


The extent of the front of the Mansion, with its two wings, is 140 feet.
The wings are identical, except that in the north wing the space
corresponding to the state dining room in the south wing was divided
into small rooms for the temporary accommodation of Mr. and Mrs. Custis
while the house was being built and was never changed. The central
portion is divided by a wide central hall. A large formal drawing room
with two fine marble fireplaces lies south of this hall, while to the
north of it can be seen the family dining room and family parlor
separated by a north and south partition broken by three graceful
arches. The second story is also divided by a central hall on either
side of which there are two bedrooms and accompanying dressing rooms. A
small room used as a linen closet is at the end of this hall. The third
floor was used only for storage purposes and remained an unfinished
attic. The grand portico facing the Potomac, with its eight massive
Doric columns, was modeled after the Temple of Theseus at Athens. At the
rear, two outhouses used as servants’ quarters, smokehouse, workroom,
and summer kitchen form a courtyard.

    [Illustration: The family dining room]




                  _General Lafayette Visits Arlington_


One of the most pleasant incidents in the history of Arlington House was
the visit in 1824 of General Lafayette, whose reverence for the memory
of Washington matched that of his host. It is related that on entering
he commented on the iron lantern in the hall, which he remembered at
Mount Vernon. The view from the portico he pronounced unrivaled,
entreating Mrs. Custis never to sacrifice any of the fine trees. General
Lafayette returned again to Arlington House in 1825 as the guest of the
Custises for several weeks.




                     _Lt. Robert E. Lee’s Marriage_


On June 30, 1831, Mary Ann Randolph Custis, only child of the Custis
family at Arlington, became the wife of Robert E. Lee, a young
lieutenant in the U. S. Army, just 2 years out of West Point. The
ceremony took place under a floral bell hung in the archway between the
family dining room and parlor. The wedding party remained at Arlington
in festivity and merriment until July 5, when the groom’s fellow
officers, their leaves ending, were forced to say good-by. Some of the
bridesmaids lingered until the end of the week.




                     _Mrs. Lee Inherits Arlington_


Much of Mrs. Lee’s married life was spent at the home of her girlhood,
sometimes with her husband, sometimes awaiting his return from the
Mexican War, or other distant tours of duty. Six of the seven Lee
children were born here. By the will of George Washington Parke Custis,
who died in 1857, the estate of Arlington was bequeathed to his daughter
for her lifetime, and afterward to his eldest grandson and namesake,
George Washington Custis Lee.

    [Illustration: The state drawing room]

Never a thrifty farmer and an easygoing master, requiring little of his
slaves, Mr. Custis’ death found the Arlington plantation sadly run down.
Robert E. Lee as executor felt that his presence at Arlington was
necessary if he was to give proper attention to the estate. He,
therefore, obtained extended leave and settled down to the life of a
farmer. Three years elapsed before he rejoined his regiment. During this
period, the traditions of Arlington House were maintained. Situated on
the main-traveled road from the South, Arlington was a favorite stopping
place for relatives and friends. Its hospitable doors were always open
to such guests.




                       _The Lees Leave Arlington_


Following the news of the secession of Virginia, news which he had hoped
never to hear, Colonel Lee, on April 20, 1861, resigned his commission
in the U. S. Army. Monday morning, April 22, at the request of the
Governor of Virginia, he departed for Richmond. Mrs. Lee remained at
Arlington engaged in the work of dismantling her home and sending family
possessions to a place of safety. She had not completed this task, when,
on May 24, the seizure of lands between Washington and Alexandria by
Federal troops caused her to abandon everything. The remaining family
possessions were later taken from Arlington and locked up in the old
Patent Office in Washington, but not before many things, including some
of the Mount Vernon heirlooms, had been carried away.




                 _The United States Acquires Arlington_


Situated on the line of fortifications guarding Washington, Arlington
estate soon became an armed camp, and, after the First Battle of Bull
Run in July 1861, was used as a field hospital. In 1864, at a tax sale,
the United States acquired title to Arlington for $26,800. Upon the
death of Mrs. Lee in 1873—General Lee having died in 1870—Custis Lee
took steps to recover his property, as under the will of his
grandfather, George Washington Parke Custis, he became entitled to
Arlington. His case was carried to the United States Supreme Court,
where a decision favorable to Mr. Lee was obtained. He then consented to
give the United States a clear title to the property for $150,000, and
Congress in 1883 appropriated the necessary funds.




                       _Arlington House Restored_


For years after the war, the Mansion stood an empty shell—an office for
the superintendent of the cemetery and a place for his tools. By act of
Congress, approved March 4, 1925, the Secretary of War was empowered to
undertake the restoration of Arlington House to the condition in which
it existed prior to the War Between the States and to procure for it,
when possible, furniture known to have been in the Mansion, replicas of
that furniture, or other pieces of a style suitable to the first half of
the nineteenth century. Some of the historical originals have been
returned, and for those that could not be obtained similar period pieces
and a few copies have been substituted. In 1933 Arlington House was
transferred from the War Department to the Department of the Interior.




                    _Visitor Service and Facilities_


Lee Mansion National Memorial is located in Arlington National Cemetery.
Bus service is available via Arlington Memorial Bridge to the main
cemetery gates. Automobiles use the same approach but may drive the
short distance through the cemetery to parking facilities near the
Mansion. Visiting hours are as follows: October through March, 9 a. m.
to 4:30 p. m.; April through September, 9 a. m. to 6 p. m. There is a
small admission charge, which is waived for children and educational
groups.




                            _Administration_


Lee Mansion National Memorial is administered by the National Capital
Parks of the National Park Service, United States Department of the
Interior. Other national memorials administered by the National Capital
Parks are: The Lincoln Memorial, the Thomas Jefferson Memorial, the
Washington Monument, the Lincoln Museum, and the House Where Lincoln
Died. Communications should be addressed to Edward J. Kelly,
Superintendent, National Capital Parks, Interior Building, Washington
25, D. C.

    [Illustration: Lee Mansion overlooks the city of Washington]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LEE MANSION NATIONAL MEMORIAL,
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA (1953) ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
